---
layout: post
title:  "Week One"
date:   2017-06-15 18:47:52 -0500
---
As one of the largest and most successful non-profit tech innovation hubs and accelerators in the world, 1871 Chicago is one of the best places to experience what is up-and-coming in business and technology.  It is home to a wide range of companies from start-ups to established multi-billion dollar corporations and functions as a vastly unique working environment.  This was easily the greatest thing I had to learn this week because it meant adjusting my normal working assumptions on almost every level.

For instance, while 1871 has fewer than thirty full-time employees, there are almost 500 companies that use the space as their working environment.  This means that on any given day, the space is flooded with hundreds of people each on their own schedule and mission, none of which I should consider my co-workers.  They are all my clients.  My job is to treat them and their needs as priority and act as a hostess and ambassador of 1871 while I perform my daily duties for the Programming Department.  These duties include learning more about these companies and their present priorities to build a larger network of mentors and workshops within 1871.

One of my first tasks was simple, in that I had to reconcile old business and mentor contact information from an Excel spreadsheet with the information found in their new online database.  To do this, I had fun using my knowledge of Excel manipulation to organize the information in a way that would make the repetitiveness of the job more efficient.  After completing this work to the satisfaction of my supervisors, they outlined a meatier goal for the rest of the summer.  Essentially, it is to help 1871 develop new, more advanced-level workshops for their more established member businesses.  This is what I will be starting on next week.

Ultimately, this first week has been about absorbing new information, learning about 1871 and its member community, and building my own skillsets.  As an employee of 1871 and as a member of their Programming Department, I can attend as many workshops and events as I can fit into my schedule.  During week one I attended two workshops.  The first was “Strategy Design Workshop Using the Business Model Canvas with Do Tank” where we discussed a typical business model and created one from scratch using existing companies.  The second was “Seed Stage Investment with Bob Gillespie” which involved learning more about what it means to request money from investors and how to treat that relationship with the investor.  The one event I attended was a Microsoft Hololens showcase led by Microsoft and a small tech company at 1871 called EX3 during which they spoke about the technical and experiential capabilities of that device.  These workshops and events were both incredibly enlightening in regards to both material and how they were specifically curated with active businesses in mind.  I think these and others will impact how I look at the 1871 workshop catalog going forward.

I’d have to say that my first week was what I expected, and everything went smoothly.  I think that to feel more comfortable I will need to become accustomed to interacting with new people every day and not feeling weird in front of a camera, because someone is always taking pictures.  Always.
