---
layout: post
title:  "Week Six - The Precious Gift of Knowledge"
date:   2017-07-19 18:47:52 -0500
---
So far, at week six as an intern at 1871 I have met at least a dozen different founders and CEO’s, and heard more stories than I can number.  One thing continues to stand out (apart from networking and that it’s all who you know): learning more never goes out of style.  Educating yourself is never a wrong thing to do.

To that point, the intern group had a private meeting with Laura Fendrich, Manager of Recruiting at 1871, to discuss hiring basics.  She went over what employers, hiring managers, and recruiters look for in résumés and cover letters, as well as common do’s and don’ts.  While much of what she said was prior knowledge for me, she also put major emphasis on the importance of researching a company before an interview.  I knew that this was important before, but not to the extent that she discussed.  For example, my experience has been that if no contact name is provided on the opening advertisement, then it is professional practice to address your cover letter as “To whom it may concern.”  However, she made a point that to do so would show a lack of basic research into the company’s departmental structure, and that searching on Linkedin or the company’s website to find the name of their hiring manager would be more appropriate.

I somewhat disagree with her advice here.  I do not necessarily assume that someone’s Linkedin profile is always accurate, as there is no accountability for claimed title or position, or even how up-to-date the information provided by the user is.  Theoretically, I could log into my Linkedin profile and say that I was a Lead Engineer at NASA, and the only thing holding me accountable for that is my own conscience.  Additionally, in my experience, a company’s website can take weeks or months to update as changes are made to the corporate structure depending on the size of the company and the priorities of its web development team.  A phone call would be the only realistic option in most cases.

Another small problem I had with the level of research she stressed was her point that it would benefit me as an applicant to find out about what the company has been lacking, or challenges they have been trying to overcome.  Again, my issue stems from accuracy.  While sometimes they may publish such issues openly on their website, I must question how up-to-date that information is.  Simultaneously, mining other channels like blogs, industry websites, or other people may lead to misinformation or outdated information.  There is nothing more embarrassing to me than appearing to know something that I actually do not.  This is not a case of “fake it until you make it.”  Nine times out of ten, a hiring professional is going to know what is factual about their own company, and basing your entire interview on a potentially faulty assumption of their business can be fatal your application.

Personally, I prefer to know the basics – what they do, when they started, noteworthy milestones, etc. – prior to the application, followed by asking more detailed, up-to-date questions during the interview like “what major projects are you currently working on in this department?”  This serves me in two ways: first, it appears that I am interested in the company and their progress, and second, it allows me to accurately apply my skillsets to their answers with a decreased potential for error.  Unfortunately, I did not mention this point of view during the workshop, but it was something I made a note of.

Notably, I also learned this week how much working at the mayor’s office with 1871 COO Tom Anderson has influenced the careers of a large percentage of the 1871 staff.  Proving that while knowledge is important, managing your network remains the best access to opportunity.
