---
layout: post
title:  "Week Five"
date:   2017-07-14 18:47:52 -0500
---
This week was a short one due to the Independence Day holiday, and so there were fewer opportunities to participate in workshops and events at 1871.  However, my team, as part of the Programming Department, began to dive head-first into the new mentor initiative to increase diversity in the available mentor pool.  

My assignment going forward on this project is to complete the onboarding process for the new mentors that have already been vetted and approved by my manager.  The work involved is to first receive information from the new mentor in the form of an emailed questionnaire.  This info is related to their areas of expertise as well as their availability to meet with members of 1871.  I then add it to 1871’s internal database and scheduler, as well as a shared Google Calendar.  Finally, I send the mentor a commitment letter to sign electronically, and an invitation to 1871’s member message board so that they can promote their new “office hours.”

While learning more about the new mentors is interesting, the onboarding process is mostly slow and tedious.  There are a lot of steps and at least five different platforms that I must use.  To get the job done right, I need to stay organized and focused.  I took a lot of notes while training and created a helpful system for myself that ensures that all steps are completed accurately.  And as each one is completed, I hope to improve my speed and efficiency.  So far, I have onboarded five new mentors and anticipate many more in the coming weeks.

My process did not come without a few hiccups, though.  Since there are so many steps involved, naturally the first one I did needed some correction.  I worked with my manager to identify my mistakes and to make adjustments.  Luckily, I learned that it was easy to go back and make changes if anything was missed.  I was also reminded of how important it is to admit when you’re wrong and ask for help if needed instead of pretending like everything is okay.  Generally, people are willing to help, and showing humility can build trust in the relationship between you and your manager and co-workers.

In addition to my new assignment, we had an interesting Fireside Chat with Phil Castro, Founder and CEO of BarPass.  He sat down in a room with my fellow interns and I to discuss how his company works as well as the process of acquiring financial investment.  One thing I learned from him was that getting funding from a VC is difficult, but not impossible – it all comes down to trust.  The VC wants to trust that you will work hard to build a product that makes money, and specifically makes them money in return.  At this point in the conversation, I asked Castro what he thought made a bigger impact on investors: reputation or product.  His answer was not entirely unpredictable.  He made the point that while a good product is important, a solid reputation for delivering results is what builds trust in you and your company.  Of course, he was sure to impress on us that there are several other factors as well, but building a reputation for consistency, honesty, and proven results is what draws in capital from investors.

Finally, we enjoyed another weekly Lunch and Learn interview session with Ashleigh Jones, a recruiter at 1871, and Laura Clark, VP of Facilities and Membership.  They described what brought them to where they are now, as well as the challenges they faced throughout their careers.  These sessions are always great moments for storytelling, and it always inspires me to know that the struggles we face are not singularly our own to bear.  Every experience and lesson learned can be shared with others down the road.
