---
layout: post
title:  "Week Eight - Challenges"
date:   2017-08-02 18:47:52 -0500
---
My last week as an 1871 intern left me with several lasting impressions that I hope to carry with me as I continue to navigate the tech industry as a professional woman.  Kicking off with a Speed Networking event where I watched an auditorium full of entrepreneurs and start-up professionals meet and chat with each other, I tried to soak in as much as possible before I left the space for good.
	
The networking event was strange to watch.  Nearly sixty individuals would buzz around the room in 10-minute segments to speak with someone they were matched with prior to the event.  I was tasked to assist with keeping the participants aware of the time, and in the space between I observed the interactions going on around me.  I overheard dozens of elevator pitches and friendly requests for coffee.  I also saw a lot of business cards exchanged, or in some cases, left behind.  And while the entire scene often felt chaotic, it was cool to know that most of those people were making real connections with each other.  My supervisor, Veronica, was hoping that enough people would make professional connections that she could share future stories of successful collaboration with the rest of the 1871 member community.  She mentioned that her goal with events like Speed Networking was to establish cooperative relationships between people and companies that would normally not find each other in a more static, traditional networking setting.  I felt immediately like this was something I could benefit from, given my shy disposition.

This week also gave me another opportunity to learn from accomplished women in the tech industry during a discussion panel curated by Women at the Mart (WAM) called “Everyday Negotiating to Get What You Want.”  Again, given my disposition, I found this illuminating and empowering.  The audience was comprised of women in different stages of their careers, and it helped me to know that I was not alone in feeling like a successful negotiation was a difficult river to cross.  The panelists were honest and thoughtful, and while they admitted that each woman’s priorities and goals are different, they also discussed approaches that would allow for strategic navigation of any professional negotiation.  

One major takeaway from this panel of women was their collective emphasis on empathetic listening.  Empathy is a powerful trait that many women have at their disposal, and they made the point that using it as a tool in negotiation could attract a more favorable response to a request.  They also mentioned how to de-personalize a “no” response, as well as the obvious importance of preparation ahead of a formal negotiation scenario.  

Finally, we had a brief Fireside Chat this week that gave me a lot to think about in terms of gender equality and unconscious bias.  We spoke with Steve Galanis, founder and CEO of Cameo, an app that allows average users to pay celebrities for recorded video shout-outs like “Happy Birthday” messages or “Good Luck” wishes.  As the chat progressed and Steve talked about the celebrities he was recruiting for the platform, he kept mentioning white male athletes.  Occasionally, a male Vine star made its way into the conversation, but there were almost no women or minorities mentioned in his examples.  So, I asked him if he understood the social impact of getting role models of different races, religions, sexual orientations, and genders to send supportive messages directly to individual fans, to which he replied that he never thought about it.  This was shocking and disappointing.  This product was essentially his life for the last 8 months, and he never once considered that marginalized or under-represented groups would benefit specifically from it if allowed the opportunity.  It made me realize that I have a lot of work to do if I’m going to help people understand how to use tech for social change.
