---
layout: post
title:  "Week Two - Managing Priorities and Building Connections"
date:   2017-06-22 18:47:52 -0500
---
Stepping into the second week of my internship in the programming department at 1871, I knew that I would be working on a larger project for the company – one that would broaden the scope of workshops available to their business community.  What I did not know was how often and how much that project would get set aside for other, more urgent assignments.  Case in point, 1871 has very recently pledged to attain full gender parity in their mentor roster, and I was tasked to help build out their contact list.  Immediately, I needed to pivot my focus from one method of research to another.  Digging into entrepreneurial curricula and interviewing people was replaced with methodical LinkedIn and Facebook deep-diving.  It helped to be flexible here, and I think my willingness to turn heel so quickly was viewed positively by my supervisors.
	
  Mentors at 1871 are people with current or past ties to the real-world of business and startups.  Usually they have years of experience in certain specific fields and are willing to share their industry knowledge with other, less-experienced entrepreneurs.  Therefore, it is completely understandable and relevant that 1871 would seek to increase the diversity of their mentors to reflect the diversity of their members.  Personally, I am excited to help contribute to this project in any way that I can because of its mission, but my current involvement also happens to have an increasing impact on my career as well.  For example, digging into hundreds of LinkedIn profiles – from whole companies to business executives to people doing what I see myself doing – means discovering what makes a good, impactful profile and what does not.  Additionally, since I am using my own LinkedIn account to access each profile, I am inadvertently showing up on the individual’s radar as a “view,” meaning they can see that I looked at them.  This, in turn, has led to a few reciprocal views from executives and other professionals in the business and tech industry – perfect for someone like me who is still paving her career path and open to new opportunities.
	
  At the same time, I have also begun reaching out via LinkedIn to the few new connections I make here at 1871 every day.  In the two weeks since I started this internship, my network has doubled, which makes me incredibly excited.  I am hoping that people I connect with today, may one day help me to build a bridge to my next opportunity.  And if I can offer them anything in the meantime, I’m incredibly happy to do so.  It feels great to feel useful, and that thought will keep me (hopefully) from getting too nervous to approach people as the weeks go on.
	
  Apart from work, I participated in three workshops this week.  “Pitch Like a Mind Reader with Jonathan Pritchard” was particularly interesting and gave me a new insight on the practicality of psychology.  I ended up leaving thinking that I could convince anyone of anything, even though I’d probably need a bit of practice first.  Later in the week I attended “Your Logo’s Great!  How’s your Brand?” and “Google Analytics 101,” each of which, despite not being incredibly useful now, still left me with a page of notes and tons to think about.  
	
  Finally, the highlight of my week was attending the WiSTEM Showcase.  Fourteen amazing female entrepreneurs, as part of WiSTEM’s fourth cohort, stood onstage in the 1871 auditorium and pitched their tech-related products to an audience of at least two hundred.  These brilliant, fierce, and motivated women were so inspiring to me, that I left the event feeling like if they could see a problem, face the struggle to fix it, and actually succeed, why can’t I?
