---
layout: post
title:  "Week Nine"
date:   2017-08-15 18:47:52 -0500
---
The point of an internship, as I understand it, is to reach past traditional academic experiences to learn more about what it is like to work in a field related to one’s career aspirations.  Theoretically, there would be opportunities to learn about how a company operates and how a job is performed, while picking up associated skills and industry knowledge along the way.  1871 in Chicago is not a typical company in a typical industry.  Described as a tech and innovation hub for startups and entrepreneurs, it hosts related workshops and events for its over 500 member companies and plays a critical role in expanding professional relationships and knowledge with their mentor program – all with a full-time staff of thirty.  This summer, 1871 sought a number of interns to help them achieve some new goals.  I applied to be an intern to assist their programming department with building out their available workshop curricula and mentor pool, and I was hired for the nine-week position.  Ultimately, I found that while my expectations were met pertaining to the above opportunities, this internship also gave me a greater understanding of myself and my goals and interests as I worked on meaningful projects and strengthened my professional network.

My first day on the job, I met the other interns that made up 1871’s summer intern staff, including Kevin, another programming department hire.  Together we worked with our supervisors, Kat and Veronica, on a few different projects that were meant to increase available resources for the member companies.  The first project involved researching potential advanced-level workshops for growing companies that needed to scale their business.  We listened closely to their needs and requirements as an organization, and then began our investigation.  I used my familiarity with academic research to deep-dive into professional texts and conduct in-depth web searches.  Kevin and I also drafted an online questionnaire for member companies and conducted informal interviews with workshop leaders and attendees to get their unique perspectives.  Finally, we organized and compiled our data into spreadsheets and mini-reports to help our supervisors understand our findings.

This work lasted about two weeks before we had to switch gears.  It was at this time that I learned something very interesting about 1871: it is actively breaking the mold of the tech industry.  1871 has publicly committed to increase diversity and inclusion within the company to reflect the diversity of Chicago itself, effectively challenging the industry’s status quo.  Part of that commitment was a pledge to achieve full gender parity in their mentor pool by next year.  This challenge fell under the programming department umbrella, and we were tasked building a list of potential new mentors.  To do this, we handed out slips of paper at every event for two months requesting the contact info of female leaders in and around Chicago.  I worked most events as kind of a facilitator, getting conversations started with people and handing out the slips.  I also worked to collect the slips after each event and meticulously log them in a spreadsheet.  All in all, we assembled the contact information of over 750 potential new mentors!  Following that, my job was to track these women down on LinkedIn and get as much information about their work history and expertise as I could, effectively to get a sense of their suitability as a mentor.  This required some knowledge and understanding of what 1871 was looking for in terms of mentorship, and meant I had a lot of questions.  Kat and Veronica were an incredible support though, and I was constantly reminded that no question is too stupid.  

Unexpectedly, working with LinkedIn every day had an interesting effect on me.  I suddenly found myself hyper-aware of my own LinkedIn profile and lack of professional connections.  This turned out to be the motivation I needed to take this internship opportunity to another level.  Clearly, in this space, everyone was building relationships and meeting new people and it was never awkward or unwelcome to send a connection request.  During my nine weeks at 1871 I gained forty new connections on LinkedIn – more than doubling how many I had before starting.  Additionally, my LinkedIn activity for work lead to many female leaders and mentors reciprocally viewing my profile.  It may not seem like much at the moment, but I am hoping these new connections will give way to something beneficial in my professional life down the road.

Without a doubt, networking was probably the most important thing I learned during my time at 1871.  There were half a dozen opportunities to become more at ease with the concept of talking to strangers about their work, from attending member workshops to private fireside chats to large sponsored events.  I learned strategies, techniques, and helpful tips from founders, CEOs, and business developers.  Now, when I walk into a room, I feel less intimidated to strike up a conversation.  I also feel more interested in what they tell me, even if I don’t see an immediate benefit for myself or my career.  I learned that the adrenaline rush is normal, and that really, everyone is nervous.  That part comes with opening yourself up to others and allowing them to understand you.  It never goes away.  I know that it takes practice to become “good” at networking and that it is a “use it or lose it” kind of skill.  And I get that sometimes, people just will not be interested in me, and it is not something I can control or feel worried about.  Networking is neither life nor death.  Although, it is important.

My internship at 1871 led to a few other professional revelations, including my interest in learning more about entrepreneurship and building a business.  As a part of the programming department, I had the opportunity to attend as many workshops as I could fit into my schedule.  Most of these workshops focused on business strategy, marketing, sales, and technology topics, and I took at least twenty of them during my nine-week post.  Workshops like “Unforgettable Lessons You Can Learn from Other Tech Companies” and “Strategy Design Using the Business Model Canvas” had me thinking about building a business with a strong foundation and the differences between short-term versus long-term strategies and goals.  Workshops like “Search Engine Marketing – Beyond Adwords” and “Pitch like a Mind Reader” gave me new insights on marketing and sales approaches.  And workshops like “From Kickstarter to QVC” and “Seed Stage Investment” taught me about finance and fundraising pitfalls with practices to overcome them.

Normally, I would not have ventured to commit to full-time college classes on the subject of entrepreneurship.  My family is full of people who started their own businesses, but the idea of understanding venture capital and marketing strategies intimidates me.  I would have hated to put money and time into taking classes that I would be miserable attending and loathe to complete.  So, it was quite fortuitous that I was able to sample some business school topics outside of business school.  Not only did I gain some broad knowledge, but I also gained some specific insight from people with experience in the industry that I could not have gained for free elsewhere.  

Outside of the workshops, I had access to founders, CEO’s and other professionals in the tech industry.  During fireside chats and networking events, I could ask them anything.  And, knowing that I was an intern there to learn from their experience, most of them happily answered my probing questions.  I think one of the most incredible things about this access, was how many different people I could talk to.  True, they were all heads of companies, but they were also of different genders, ages, races, ethnicities, and sexual orientations.  This was important to me, because it allowed me to ask similar questions, but see the answers from different points of view.  Asking a female founder if they experienced bias in fundraising would get a much different answer than if I asked a male.  Asking the white male founder of Cameo if he ever considered the social impact his product could have on disenfranchised populations gave me incredible insight into the passive bias present in product development.  Asking the black female founder of Noirefy what steps she took to start her company allowed me to understand the value of branding and why names make a difference.

The resources afforded me as an intern at 1871 were numerous, and I truly appreciated them.  Working in a co-working space like theirs was new to me, and after working for years in cubicles or remote from home, I decided that I greatly prefer the open, shared workspace.  It was brightly lit with large, shared tables, long and short couches, and comfy armchairs with foot rests to prop up a laptop or tired, cramped legs.  It was the array of options that I most enjoyed, and not feeling chained down to a desk or distracted by the laundry list of to-do’s at home.  Knowing now that this kind of environment suits my productivity style, I can add it to my list of needs as I search for employment in the coming months.  I was also reminded that I respond best to only minor oversight and bureaucracy in my daily work.  As an extremely independent person, constant micromanaging is unhelpful, as is layer upon layer of corporate structure.  Generally, I like the balance between being able to ask a question and getting that question answered in a timely manner.

In this way, my supervisors, Kat and Veronica, were two of the best women I ever worked for.  Not only were they open and honest with me as projects began and changes developed that required the entire team to pivot and switch focus, but they were smart, funny, and down-to-earth as well.  During my final week at 1871, they took me out to lunch as both a thank you and to learn more about what my plans were going forward.  I told them about my plans to graduate next spring and about my capstone project, where I intend to create an art space for digital reality works.  They offered me some advice on my project along with a few leads to get me started, for which I was immensely thankful.  I could tell that they were genuinely interested in where I was headed, and I know that they will be there for me if I ever need help getting somewhere in my career.

By the end of my internship, I was quite sad to leave.  My time at 1871 was incredibly rewarding, both academically and professionally, and I made some new friends in the other interns.  We each left with different skills and knowledge gained but most of us decided that it was one of the best experiences we could have had over the summer.  I can look back on my time at 1871 and know that much of what I learned will translate to future positions, or even to my own business if I ever decide to start one.  Being in the same room as so many entrepreneurs gave me infinite hints and ideas for steps toward my career path.  After speaking to some of them, I know that there is no right or wrong way to begin my career, as long as I continually strive to better myself and seek out new opportunities as they are presented.
