---
layout: post
title:  "Week Three"
date:   2017-06-29 18:47:52 -0500
---
The third week of my internship at 1871 began to feel more natural, as coming and going lost its novelty.  It also gave me quite a lot to think about in terms of professional growth and where I hope to be in the coming months and years.  The working environment is easily the most unique, but also the people I work with – my supervisors, people in other departments, and executives – have all been so incredibly warm and generous with their time and advice that it really makes me want to work in a place where everyone is similarly supportive of each other. 
	
  For example, we had an intern team meeting on Monday where 1871 COO, Tom Alexander, stopped in to see how we were all fitting in and to listen to any thoughts we had so far on the experience.  He also gave us the opportunity to ask him any questions we wanted – to pick his brain.  I was so completely awestruck at his willingness to be so open and honest, and to allow us to do the same, that I couldn’t think of a single thing to say or ask.  My thoughts were racing.  Hindsight often keeps me up at night, and this was one of those times where I kick myself for not speaking up.  The chat itself was funny and enlightening though, and I listened intently to each of his thoughtful responses.
	
  The next day he gave a short presentation to our group on networking.  I took two full pages of notes and really made sure I understood what he was talking about.  And, this time I was more prepared to engage him with my own questions, including trying to understand more about what makes knowing me, a student, valuable to others.  And what I learned was that the payoff for most people is not immediate, or even existent – that we must only try to listen hard and connect with as many people as we can, without hope for return.  And if there is a return, then all the better.  Other tidbits like finding the most magnetic person in the room to talk to first because then talking to other people is a cake-walk, matching the strength of someone’s handshake, and being honest with your responses – if you don’t intend to meet someone for coffee, don’t tell them you should.
	
  Another opportunity for insight was the Fireside Chat with Joseph Holberg, CEO and Founder of Holberg Financial based out of 1871.  He discussed what it was like to attempt to sell a financial product to people twice his age, how he had to pivot his business from a B2C model to a B2B model, his experience writing a book, and his personal life struggles that involved coming from student debt to being able to fund his own startup.  These Fireside Chats are presented once a week for the interns, and they each feature an 1871 entrepreneur.  This one left me with the sense that I can always change my own situation, even if the struggle is real, and that adjusting things is okay as long as I don’t lose sight of what my real goals are.  I only need to know the problem in order to solve it.
	
  The workshops I participated in this week were “Startup Law 101” and “Search Engine Marketing: Beyond Adwords.”  Personally, I learned a lot of interesting information in the legal workshop that I can bring to future encounters with all stages of companies including those I am most familiar with – employers, my dad’s small business, or my own possible startup.  The facilitators had information that made me reconsider how taxes influence the way businesses are run in Illinois and around the country.  Additionally, I had no idea how much internet marketing is influenced by your behavior online, and I learned a lot in the “Beyond Adwords” workshop about how to use search engine data to manipulate customer traffic to your website, product, or app.
	
  While my actual internship work was a little slow this week with no new projects, I found value in learning more about the people that I see every day, and what entrepreneurship means to them.
