---
layout: post
title:  "Week Four - Connecting the Dots"
date:   2017-07-05 18:47:52 -0500
---
Understanding how to sell myself has never been a strong trait in me.  In fact, I feel miserable when I talk about myself and often try to change the subject as quickly as possible.  However, this week at 1871 I learned to be a bit more vocal about my strengths and weaknesses, while knowing the importance of listening to others and understanding the meaning behind their questions to more effectively “sell” my answer.

For example, I participated in a workshop this week called “Close More Sales: Understanding Your Ideal Prospect and When They Will Buy with Mary Dombrowski.”  A long title, but it cuts to the heart of the discussion which was how to listen to potential customers to discover their needs and goals before attempting to sell your product to them.  Dombrowski points out that sometimes people are not ready for what you’re offering, and trying to force it upon them will only waste both of your time.  Instead, she offered some ways to deal with difficult customers including backing off while keeping lines of communication open in case their situation changes or their need becomes too great to ignore.

True, she was discussing selling a product or service to a customer or client.  However, I believe this tactic can apply to job hunting and networking as well.  It is not difficult to imagine that acing an interview with a potential employer or creating rewarding connections with businesses and people hinges on one’s knowledge of their needs and goals.  A common recommendation before a job interview is to do extensive research on the company to show interest in working for them.  However, it is also a great way to know how to frame your skills in ways that meet their specific target areas or address their specific challenges.  Asking questions during an interview or meeting accomplishes a similar thing.  And according to Dombrowski, this technique creates value in your abilities and establishes a desire to work with you, whether you are attempting to secure a new client or get that dream job.  

“From Kickstarter to QVC: Journey of a Consumer Product Company,” a workshop led by Shivani Jain, co-founder of FitnessCubed and co-developer of the compact fitness machine Cubii, gave another perspective on sales.  She outlined her company’s journey from problem to solution to market and candidly discussed their struggles along the way.  Again, while focused primarily on consumer product sales, there were a lot of moments of general good advice for any situation.  One of the main takeaways from this workshop for me was not only the importance of planning, but the realization that even with a well-developed plan you cannot account for everything.  So, my flexibility and adaptability are strengths that could serve me well in an interview, networking event, coffee meeting, or other interpersonal situation where I need to make an impression.

Finally, there was a moment this week in a Fireside Chat with Sarah Perkins, CEO and co-founder of DesignShare, that I really felt that I understood how hard it was to put yourself out there and defend yourself as a business owner.  She shared stories about some of the difficulties she faced as a young female entrepreneur with an older male co-founder, and how it made her feel to be treated differently and sometimes blatantly disrespected because of her age and gender.  What I learned was that despite the real struggle to constantly need to prove yourself or sell yourself to people who just “don’t get it,” the reward for working hard and maintaining professionalism in all cases is worth the pain of knowing that some people will never be interested in what you’re selling, even if you think they need it.
